---
title: Research Interests
layout: page
---
# Research Interests

My research focuses on four closely related areas in computational biology and bioinformatics: 1) Development of innovative computational methods for knowledge discovery. I pioneer the development of novel computational tools and artificial intelligence algorithms to incorporate highly heterogeneous big data for novel knowledge discovery; 2) Multi-omics integration and interpretation of molecular intricacy to derive actionable insights; 3) Application of data-driven approaches for deciphering disease mechanisms; and 4) Integrative approach for patient characterization and precision medicine.

1.	Development of innovative computational methods for knowledge discovery. My developed methods contribute to the interpretation of heterogeneous biological data for knowledge discovery. I have developed tailored methods dealing with start-of-art biological data, including: 1) the accurate alignment of single-cells from different platforms, species, and omics layers; 2) transferring single-cell information to disentangle the cell compositions in spot-level spatial resolved transcriptomics; and 3) the statistical modeling of single-cell data from different sources for novel comparative analysis. These studies provide fundamental work for developing novel algorithms to further address missing data issues in single-cell epigenomics and spatial transcriptomics field.
   
a.	Song Q, Su J, Zhang W (2021) “scGCN: a Graph Convolutional Networks Algorithm for Knowledge Transfer in Single Cell Omics.” Nature Communications. DOI: 10.1038/s41467-021-24172-y, PMID: 34158507
b.	Song Q, Su J (2021) “DSTG: Deconvoluting Spatial Transcriptomics Data through Graph-based Artificial Intelligence.” Briefings in Bioinformatics. DOI: 10.1093/bib/bbaa414, PMID: 33480403
c.	Song Q, Su J, Miller L, Zhang W (2020) “scLM: Automatic Detection of Consensus Gene Clusters Across Multiple Single-cell Datasets.” Genomics, Proteomics & Bioinformatics. DOI: 10.1016/j.gpb.2020.09.002, PMID: 33359676
d.	Luo J, Liu L, Venkateswaran S, Song Q, Zhou X (2017) “RPI-Bind: a structure-based method for accurate identification of RNA-protein binding sites.” Scientific reports. DOI: 10.1038/s41598-017-00795-4, PMID: 28377624

2.	Multi-omics integration and interpretation of molecular intricacy to derive actionable insights. My developed methods contribute to the understanding of the interplay of different molecule layers in diseases. These work include: 1) the joint statistical method for integrative analysis of single-cell multi-omics data, which enables to detect coherent regulatory signals and target genes from unpaired scRNA-seq and scATAC-seq data; 2) the integrative approach of bioinformatics and multi-scale modeling on scRNA-seq and proteomics data, which predicts the dynamic drug response of lung tumor cells; and 3) the sNMF-based subtyping approach that deciphers the biomarkers of brain metastasis based on transcriptomic, proteomic and metabolomic data.
   
a.	Song Q, Jin L, Zhu X, Su J (2022) “SMGR: a joint statistical method for integrative analysis of single-cell multi-omics data.” NAR genomics and bioinformatics. DOI: 10.1093/nargab/lqac056, PMID: 35910046
b.	Chen M, Xu C, Xu Z, He Z, Su J, Song Q* (2022) “Uncovering the dynamic effects of DEX treatment on lung cancer by integrating bioinformatic inference and multiscale modeling of scRNA-seq and proteomics data.” Computers in biology and medicine. DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2022.105999, PMID: 35998480
c.	Su J, Song Q, Qasem S, O’Neill S, Furdui C, Pasche B, Metheny-Barlow L, Masters A, Lo H, Xing F, Watabe K, Miller L, Tatter S, Laxton A, Whitlow C, Chan M, Soike M, Ruiz J (2020), Multi-Omics Analysis of Brain Metastasis Outcomes Following Craniotomy.” Frontiers in Oncology. DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2020.615472, PMID: 33889540
d.	Triozzi P, Stirling E, Song Q, Westwood B, Kooshki B, Forbes E, Holbrook B, Cook K, Alexander-Miller M, Miller L, Zhang W, Soto-Pantoja D (2022), “Circulating Immune Bioenergetic, Metabolic, and Genetic Signatures Predict Melanoma Patients' Response to Anti–PD-1 Immune Checkpoint Blockade.” Clinical Cancer Research. DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-21-3114, PMID: 35284940

3.	Application of data-driven approaches for deciphering disease mechanisms. My work of using data-driven approaches have contributed to the understanding of underlying mechanisms in different diseases. 1) To reveal the underlying activities in lung tumor microenvironment, I computationally analyzed the single-cell data from lung cancer patients and revealed intercellular myeloid cells reprogramming whereby tumor cells stimulated monocyte‐to‐M2 differentiation. 2) I also investigated the potential functions of fibroblasts in hepatocellular carcinoma. 3) To enhance checkpoint immunotherapy in melanoma patients, I applied a computational predictive approach and identified B-cell biomarker IGLC3 associated with the progression of individual melanoma patient in response to checkpoint therapy.

a.	Song Q, Liu L. (2022) “Single-Cell RNA-Seq Technologies and Computational Analysis Tools: Application in Cancer Research.” Methods in molecular biology. DOI:10.1007/978-1-0716-1896-7_23, PMID: 35044670
b.	Song Q, Forbes E, Miller L, Triozzi P, Liu L, Zhang W, Soto-Pantoja D, (2020) “Single-cell liquid biopsy reveals circulating heterogeneity and converging subpopulations in relation to immunotherapy response in melanoma.” Cancer Research. DOI: 10.1158/1538-7445.
c.	Song Q, Hawkins G, Wudel L, et.al, (2019) “Dissecting intratumoral myeloid cell plasticity by single cell RNA-seq.” Cancer Medicine. DOI: 10.1002/cam4.2113. PMID: 31033233
d.	Zhang J*, Gu C*, Song Q*, Zhu M, Xu Y, Xiao M, Zheng W. (2020) “Identifying cancer-associated fibroblasts as emerging targets for hepatocellular carcinoma.” Cell & Bioscience. DOI: 10.1186/s13578-020-00488-y, PMID: 33292459

4.	Integrative approach for patient characterization and precision medicine. 1) I have made impactful contributions to the patient characterization and subtyping based on multi-modal data types, including clinical, copy number alterations, mutations, DNA methylation, and mRNA expression, which identified the clinically significant subtypes and suggested potential therapeutic targets. 2) During the COVID-19 pandemic, I have been working on characterizing the cancer patients within NCATS’ National COVID Cohort Collaborative, to investigate the risk factors of COVID-19 breakthrough infections and severe outcomes. My study highlighted patients who received recent immunotherapies or targeted therapies did not have higher risk of overall mortality or breakthrough infection risks, and provided evidence on the effects of COVID-19 on cancer outcomes and the ability to continue specific cancer treatments. This work revealed fundamental insights valuable to the precision protection of the cancer population.

a.	Song Q, Bates B, Shao YR, Madhira V, Liu F, Bergquist T, Sharafeldin N, Su J, Topologlu U. (2022) ”Risk and Outcome of Breakthrough COVID-19 Infections in Vaccinated Patients With Cancer: Real-World Evidence From the National COVID Cohort Collaborative.” Journal of Clinical Oncology. DOI:10.1200/JCO.21.02419, PMID: 35286152
b.	Liu Y, Wang L, Song Q, Ali M, Crowe WN, Kucera GL, Hawkins GA, Soker S, Thomas KW, Miller LD, Lu Y. (2021) “Intrapleural nano-immunotherapy promotes innate and adaptive immune responses to enhance anti-PD-L1 therapy for malignant pleural effusion.” Nature Nanotechnology. DOI: 10.1038/s41565-021-01032-w, PMID: 34916656
c.	Sharafeldin N, Bates B, Song Q, Madhira V, Dong S, Yan Y, Lee E, Kuhrt N, Shao YR, Liu F, Bergquist T. (2021) “Outcomes of COVID-19 in patients with cancer: report from the National COVID Cohort Collaborative.” Journal of Clinical Oncology. DOI: 10.1200/JCO.21.01074, PMID: 34085538
d.	Berger C, Korkut A, et.al, Song Q, et.al. (2018) “A comprehensive Pan-Cancer molecular study of gynecologic and breast cancers.” Cancer Cell. DOI: 10.1016/j.ccell.2018.03.014, PMID: 29622464 
